When Jehovah God asked Eve, what is this that you have done?
She replied, as recorded a Genesis 313, the serpent deceived me.
So I ate. Yes, as far as Eve knew,
she was misled or thoroughly deceived as the Scriptures state
by a literal serpent that she could see and that spoke to her.
However, we know that lurking behind the scene there in the Garden of Eden
was really the original serpent, Satan the Devil,
just as Revelation 129 tells us.
But you know, many people scoff about the idea of the Devil.
This calls to mind what Dennis Rougemont, he's a Swiss writer,
what he had to say about the Devil.
He wrote, Satan's first trick is his incognito.
God says, I am He who is.
But the Devil says, my name is nobody.
There is nobody whom should you be afraid of?
Are you going to tremble before the non-existent?
The writer continues by saying that the Devil has them,
that is, people who don't believe that he exists,
he has them exactly where he wants them.
He vanishes in his success and his triumph is his incognito.
So it's really just as the poet declared many years ago,
the Devil's finest trick is to persuade you that he does not exist.
Of course, we know he exists,
and that he's behind all of the misery, the hate,
and the violence that has taken place on the earth
from the time of the death of Abel down to the present time.
It's interesting to note, Satan started in the Garden of Eden
by misleading one woman.
Now, Revelation 129 says, he's misleading.
The entire inhabited earth, what a tremendous contrast that is.
So how does he do it?
How does he mislead people today?
Basically, it's the same way that he misled Eve.
Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 3.
Notice what Paul wrote.
He explains it nicely.
He says, to the Corinthians, but I am afraid
that somehow as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning,
and now here's the main point, your minds might be corrupted
away for the sincerity and the chastity that are due to Christ.
Yes, it's the mind that becomes infected with wrong thinking.
The wrong thinking comes from Satan the Devil.
The serpent got Eve to fix her attention or her mind
on what was contrary to God's will.
What was unlawful then became desirable,
and once her mind was corrupted,
she was easily drawn into an actual act of sin.
Satan operates the same way today.
He may not speak through a serpent,
but he does have visible agents on the earth.
In Jesus' day, we know the religious leaders
were Satan's visible agents.
He called them children of the devil,
and that they wanted to do the will of their father.
So today, individuals and organizations make themselves
Satan's agents by promoting his lies.
That's what takes place.
First Timothy, chapter 4, verses 1 and 2,
and this makes the point clear how humans become Satan's agents.
Paul wrote, however, the inspired word clearly says
that in later times, we could say we live in later times,
some will fall away from the faith,
paying attention to misleading inspired statements
and teachings of demons.
Now who's doing this teaching of demons?
Verse 2, by means of the hypocrisy of men who speak lies,
whose conscience is seared as with the branding iron.
Yes, so people who promote Satan's viewpoints,
who promote lawlessness, sexual immorality, and spiritism,
they're the channel that Satan has used in addition
to the channels that are available to him
in the form of worldly organizations.
For example, this system's politics, religion, commerce,
and entertainment, and it must be said,
entertainment is playing an outsized role in being the voice
for Satan, the devil, and promoting sexual immorality
and spiritism.
So we have to work to protect ourselves against such things.
The watchtower of April 2019, page 23, paragraph 12,
encourages us to ask ourselves these questions.
It's all in connection with this point about spiritism,
occult practices.
Do I read books, magazines, or articles on the internet
about the occult?
What about the music I listen to?
The movies and TV shows I watch, or the video games I play,
does any of my entertainment involve spiritism?
That's the key question.
Does it feature such things as vampires, zombies,
or the paranormal?
Does it portray magic, spells, or curses, as harmless fun?
But it balances itself out beautifully here,
because then it goes on to say that not all entertainment
that features fantasies or fairy tales
is necessarily connected to spiritism.
So this is where we have to use our good judgment,
and really we're responsible for what we watch,
for what we read, for what we listen to.
The ultimate responsibility is our,
so we want to use good judgment,
and we want to make good choices
that will keep us as far away as possible
from anything to do with the occult.
The Principle is said forth in Deuteronomy,
Deuteronomy chapter 13.
And this is what Jehovah said to the Israelites,
that we could really apply the principles to our day also,
and to practices that actually occur.
Deuteronomy 13 will read verses 1 through 3.
In case a prophet, or one who foretells by dreams,
arises in your midst, and gives you a sign or a portant,
and the sign or the portant about which he spoke to you comes true,
while he is saying, now notice this connection,
what he prophesied came true, but what's he telling the people?
He's saying, let us walk after other gods,
gods that you have not known, and let us serve them.
Will Jehovah's words to his people?
You must not listen to the words of that prophet,
or that dreamer, for Jehovah your God is testing you,
to know whether you love Jehovah your God
with all your heart and all your soul.
So that is the direction we get from Jehovah,
but did you notice in the scriptural account?
What the dreamer, what he prophesied apparently,
could come true, but we have to remember predictions
that are based on methods of divination
and that are designed to take us away from Jehovah,
they come from one source, the demons.
They're deceiving, or they're trying to deceive us,
and turn us away really from serving Jehovah God
and come enthralled with this idea.
Oh, it all came true, what was foretold?
No, that is not the key point, the key point is,
who is saying these things?
We listen to Jehovah God.
On the other hand, also, we do whatever we can
to awaken people about the truth, about Jehovah God.
We want to help people to free themselves from spiritism,
from demonism, want them to know what the purpose is
that Jehovah God has for us on this earth.
And it's so simple really in the end
as to what the source of spiritism is.
After all, the dead are really dead.
We know that.
The occult is nothing more than dealing with the demons,
whatever form it may take.
Revelation chapter 22, verse 15 tells us this.
Outside, it says, this is outside of New Jerusalem,
out of God's favor, outside are the dogs,
that is, those who practice disgusting things,
and those who practice spiritism,
and those who are sexually immoral,
and the murderers, and the idolaters,
and everyone who loves and practices lying.
A lot of people fall into that category.
So how wonderful it is that the Bible helps us to draw
close to Jehovah while putting us on guard against spiritism
and all other forms of demon propaganda.